- [Instructor] GitOps provides a number of benefits
that improve how we manage and operate our systems.
Let's take a closer look at them.
When you adopt a GitOps workflow,
deploying a change starts with Git
for every change every time.
Git becomes the only way for developers
to make a change to the system.
Once developers make a commit,
automation takes over to deploy the change
to the running system.
So what's so great about that?
Well, to deploy or release a change,
a developer only needs to know a few Git commands.
Let me put it another way.
If your delivery process looks like this,
and it's understood only by about two people
in your entire company,
and somewhere in there is a secret handshake,
GitOps can help.
It's automated and repeatable approach
to continuous delivery allows anyone on the team
to release changes.
So releases start to occur more frequently,
and the team delivers faster
without compromising systems stability.
Because the GitOps pattern uses automation
to deploy changes,
the workflow is repeatable and consistent.
This makes system operations more predictable
and less prone to human error,
which causes your rate of successful deployments
to increase.
If your system does experience an issue,
all it takes is another Git commit that undoes the change
to roll back the system to its last working state.
In the event of a complete meltdown,
GitOps allows you to quickly rebuild the entire system
using the declarative infrastructure code
that is stored in Git that describes the entire system.
The bottom line is GitOps standardizes operational processes
to remove risk and to avoid surprises.
Now, if you've ever experienced a surprise,
you know I'm not talking about a birthday party
or breakfast in bed.
The story typically goes like this.
We release some changes to our system.
It was probably on a Friday.
And all of a sudden it started to thrash.
So we (indistinct) into the box
and discovered that four years ago,
somebody made this change that nobody knew about.
And that's what caused me to work all weekend.
Yes.
So, if you're tired of hearing or telling that story,
GitOps can help prevent that.
With GitOps, operations become transparent,
because Git is the only way to make a change
to the system.
And it's where the entire system is described.
Silos between DevSecOps can be broken down
using Git as a collaboration tool.
With Git, team members can review, discuss,
and approve the changes to the system
that are being made using a pull request.
Anyone or anything with access can inspect the code.
This includes automated tools
that enforce security practices.
GitOps provides a balance between strong security controls
and the transparency that developers need to do their job.
Because the work and discussion around changes
is centralized in Git,
the workflow naturally builds an audit log.
You get traceability of who made or approved each change,
which can be really important
if you're working in a highly regulated environment.
Arguably, the most important security benefit of GitOps
is that changes to the runtime state of the system
are only applied by agents running in the system.
The need for external access to the system
through tolls like SSH is eliminated.
And it restricts how we make changes to a single method.
And that's what allows us to get rid of those surprises.
So, those are some of the high level benefits
that draw organizations to a GitOps approach.
Next, we'll start to unpack
the underlying GitOps principles.
So you are rock solid on the core GitOps concepts.